##Introduction

One day, I was talking to a friend of mine about his upcoming Latin 101 midterm.  "I have the greatest idea," he exclaimed suddenly.  "I know how I am going to study for this Latin exam:  Spreadsheets.  So many spreadsheets."

It was a great idea.  Charts and spreadsheets are absolutely essential for learning Latin.  However, my friend's spreadsheets made me realize that, to those in the beginning stages of the language, Latin is not anything more than lists of vocabulary, a hundred new endings to memorize, and a few repeated patterns.  There is no authenticity to the language.  There is no personal connection.  There is no meaning.  Latin really is just... spreadsheets.

Now, when we read the great authors, it becomes quite clear to us that Latin is more than spreadsheets.  In the hands of the poets, orators, and historians, the language is powerful, transcendent, and often the rules in our spreadsheets no longer apply.  However, a student of Latin must work for many years before he can read the likes of Cicero or Vergil.  Before that point - should he ever make it to that point without losing interest - the student has to struggle with a 2,000-year-long separation from the language he is studying.  He cannot even imagine the people who used to speak Latin, or for that matter feel connected to them.  Sure, he knows who the Romans were and maybe he even knows a little of their history - but for all the student cares, the whole empire could have been a story invented by a few guys a hundred years ago in order to give some context to their spreadsheets full of meaningless, made-up syllables.  Latin, and its people, are not real.

And so, that is the challenge of teaching a historical language:  how do we make it real?

In my rhetoric class, taught by K. J. Rawson, we often discuss the importance of touch in archival work.  The ability to physically touch something gives way to a truer, more personal relationship with an object and the history associated with that object.  In my own experience, standing in the Colosseum can imbue one with a feeling of connectedness, the weight of all the history that happened in that very spot, and a strong sense of the very real people who walked through that dust before.  Artifacts once held by ancient hands can provide the same feeling.

However, although touch is *powerful*, it is not always *possible*.  It goes without saying that not every Latin student can jet off to Rome and walk in the footsteps of Caesar - I was not lucky enough to do so until my 7th year of studying the language.  Fortunately, the digital age has provided us with thousands of ways to reach and connect with these artifacts and places - online.  We can, in a way, digitally "touch" objects or "walk" through dusty streets that are in reality whole worlds away.  Perhaps we lose something when we lose physical touch, but in digital archives we gain so much more.  

This particular project aims to give beginning Latin students the ability to "touch" Ancient Roman artifacts and perhaps gain a sense of the related people and places.  For that reason, we have put together a small collection of epigraphic material with which to teach Latin.  The language, which does not always follow the rules of those spreadsheets, is as much an artifact as the artifacts themselves.  The Latin is permanently intertwined with the objects.  It is our hope that, as a result, Latin as a historical language will truly become **real**.

Teaching Latin through epigraphic material requires a restructuring of the traditional method of Latin pedagogy.  This project also lays out a proposed curriculum for a first year Latin course.  The curriculum has been re-imagined and re-ordered so that students can work with coins and inscriptions as soon as and as often as possible - even beginning on the first day of class.  Because of this, the curriculum has a tendency to teach "to the inscriptions" - that is, themes and patterns that are most common in our epigraphic material are taught first.  Since we were in the process of restructuring, we also thought about which concepts appeared more often in Latin literature, and opted to teach those earlier in order to give students more practice with those concepts.

Although we have designed a curriculum, we also want to make our collection completely available and usable outside of that curriculum.  Each image is tagged with the relevant grammatical topics and concepts, so that the collection is easily searchable.  At its core, we hope this project can be a useful and applicable tool for students and teachers interested in inscriptions.

The collection of artifacts is primarily composed of my own images.  The images are soon to be linked to location data, descriptions of the relevant topics and concepts, historical blurbs, and, where possible, a reference to that inscription in a greater corpus of Latin epigraphy.  

Language is by nature meaningful, because it allows us to speak, to express ourselves, and to share in the human experience.  People have been doing this for thousands of years.  Language is dynamic, it is powerful, and it creates connections.  For many students, Latin is not a language - it is a puzzle.  A list of endings.  A few charts.  Latin is spreadsheets.  And yet, we know it was once so much more.  We know that Latin was once spoken by real people just like us - people who worked and played, fought and loved, lived and died.  We have a separation from the language, but it is, by all means, real.  This project is an attempt to lessen that separation - just a little bit.  We hope that, for those beginning to study the language, we can make Latin just a little more meaningful.  Just a little more real.
